# thrust-device

This repository contains useful tools that model propeller geometry, blade counts, duct clearance, mechanical stresses and drag during operation, of a thrust device. 

## Blade Count
`Blade_Count_Optimiser.py` returns optimum number of blades for the rotor and stator, given the operating conditions (desired thrust (`T_des`), inflow velocity (`V_inf`),  rotor diameter (`D`), and air density (`rho`)).

## Propeller Geometry
`Propeller Generator.py` finds propeller geometry for a particular airfoil. 

Blade Element Momentum Theory is applied, and propeller geometry is calculated, along with state parameters (axial velocities and swirl velocities).  

## Vortex Lattice Method Solving
The `VLM_solver.jl` takes in a `.csv` file as input. This is generated by passing the output from `Propeller Generator.py` and `Blade_Count_Optimiser.py` into `csv_generator(VLM).py`. 

## Fusion360 Geometry
`blade.py` takes in output from `Blade_Count_Optimiser.py` and `Propeller Generator.py`, and outputs Fusion360 geometry of the propeller.

## Geometry of Other Parts
The inlet cone, exhaust cone and casing are defined geometrically by `Centerpiece_Generator.py`. 

This output is used by `Inlet.py`, `DuctEffect.py`, `DragDistribution(Centerpiece).py`, and `Drag@DifferentVel.py`. 

## Engine Duct
`DuctEffect.py` models energy losses that would occur by operating the engine without the duct, hence justifying the duct's presence. It also models the clearance between the blades and the duct.

## Drag
drag distribution about different parts of the engine, are calculated by `DragDistribution(Centerpiece).py`. 

>[!NOTE]
>This drag distribution does not include drag about the rotor and stator.

`Drag@DifferentVel.py` models drag during takeoff and cruise, due to the different engine components.

## Mechanical Stress
`Stress.py` calculates stresses placed on different parts of the engine. This is used to calculate the safety factor of the engine.

